APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) are a means to create establish a functional connection between a program and an external web application. By this, there needs to be an interactive relationship between the application host (server[s]), and the program client (user/program). 
The client/server relationship happens via HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol). The client will send a request to the server. When the server receives the request and will send a response back to the client.
Client/server relationships are representative of REST(Representation State Transfer) which means that when you view a webpage, you're viewing the Representation. Once a link has been clicked, the web browser is then redirected to a new page. The change in pages is the State Transfer.
There are three things that a web service/api needs in order to be deemed RESTful:
1. Separate client from server
2. Server doesn't hold state in between requests
3. Uses HTTP/HTTP methods

HTTP Methods:
Here are the 4 most commonly used methods...
GET : gets information from source
POST : sends information to source
PUT : updates source information
DELETE : removes source information

HTTP Request:
Consists of 3 parts:
1. Request line: Designates request type (HTTP Method) and a resource
2. Header : Sends server information about the client
3. Body : Can contain data (for POST/PUT) or be empty

API Keys:
These are long alphanumeric strings that are used to grant access to prgoram to use the API. The provider will use this key to also track service usage (There is a security application to this). OAuth is a standard protocol for API authentication (this is seen when an a link requests permission to link an app to an external account).
Example api key: key="AILnlj341nbKlFD123jLKJkjakZXwa41234"

HTTP Server Response Status Codes:
100's: Processing request
200's: Responding to request
300's: Request response is on standby
400's: Request error (client made an error)
500's: Server error (server fails to respond)

HTTP Response:
Consists of 3 parts:
1. Response line : includes the status code (as described above)
2. Header : includes more server information and response
3. Body : text of response
